docs/programming/source/audiotools_freedb.rst, before:

:mod:`audiotools.freedb` --- FreeDB Lookup Service Module
=========================================================

.. module:: audiotools.freedb
   :synopsis: a Module for Accessing FreeDB Information

The :mod:`audiotools.freedb` module contains classes
and functions for performing lookups to the FreeDB service.

DiscID Objects
--------------

.. class:: DiscID(offsets, total_length, track_count)

   A FreeDB disc ID object used to perform lookups.
   ``offsets`` is a list of track offsets in CD sectors
   (1/75th of a second), each including the 2 second pre-gap
   at the start of the disc.
   ``total_length`` is the length of the disc, in seconds,
   from index point 1 of the first track to the disc's lead-out.
   ``track_count`` is the total number of tracks on the disc.

.. method:: DiscID.__str__()

   Returns the disc ID as an 8 character hexadecimal string
   that FreeDB expects when performing lookups.

.. classmethod:: DiscID.from_cddareader(cddareader)

   Given a :class:`audiotools.cdio.CDDAReader` object,
   returns the :class:`DiscID` of that disc.

.. classmethod:: DiscID.from_tracks(tracks)

   Given a sorted list of :class:`audiotools.AudioFile` objects,
   returns the :class:`DiscID` as if those tracks were a CD.

.. warning::

   This assumes all the tracks from the disc are present
   and are laid out in a conventional
   fashion with no "hidden" tracks or other oddities.
   The disc ID may not be accurate if that's not the case.

.. classmethod:: DiscID.from_sheet(sheet, total_pcm_frames, sample_rate)

   Given a :class:`audiotools.Sheet` object along
   with the total length of the disc in PCM frames
   and the disc's sample rate (typically 44100),
   returns the :class:`DiscID`.

Performing Lookup
-----------------

.. function:: perform_lookup(disc_id, freedb_server, freedb_port)

   Given a :class:`DiscID` object,
   FreeDB hostname string and FreeDB server port (usually 80),
   iterates over a list of :class:`audiotools.MetaData` objects
   per successful match, like:

   ``[track1, track2, ...], [track1, track2, ...], ...``

   May yield nothing if the server has no matches for the given disc ID.

   May raise :exc:`urllib2.HTTPError` if an error occurs
   querying the server or :exc:`ValueError` if the server returns
   invalid data.

Commit message:

Include lots of additional copyright notices

docs/programming/source/audiotools_freedb.rst, after:

..
  Audio Tools, a module and set of tools for manipulating audio data
  Copyright (C) 2007-2015  Brian Langenberger

  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
  Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

:mod:`audiotools.freedb` --- FreeDB Lookup Service Module
=========================================================

.. module:: audiotools.freedb
   :synopsis: a Module for Accessing FreeDB Information

The :mod:`audiotools.freedb` module contains classes
and functions for performing lookups to the FreeDB service.

DiscID Objects
--------------

.. class:: DiscID(offsets, total_length, track_count)

   A FreeDB disc ID object used to perform lookups.
   ``offsets`` is a list of track offsets in CD sectors
   (1/75th of a second), each including the 2 second pre-gap
   at the start of the disc.
   ``total_length`` is the length of the disc, in seconds,
   from index point 1 of the first track to the disc's lead-out.
   ``track_count`` is the total number of tracks on the disc.

.. method:: DiscID.__str__()

   Returns the disc ID as an 8 character hexadecimal string
   that FreeDB expects when performing lookups.

.. classmethod:: DiscID.from_cddareader(cddareader)

   Given a :class:`audiotools.cdio.CDDAReader` object,
   returns the :class:`DiscID` of that disc.

.. classmethod:: DiscID.from_tracks(tracks)

   Given a sorted list of :class:`audiotools.AudioFile` objects,
   returns the :class:`DiscID` as if those tracks were a CD.

.. warning::

   This assumes all the tracks from the disc are present
   and are laid out in a conventional
   fashion with no "hidden" tracks or other oddities.
   The disc ID may not be accurate if that's not the case.

.. classmethod:: DiscID.from_sheet(sheet, total_pcm_frames, sample_rate)

   Given a :class:`audiotools.Sheet` object along
   with the total length of the disc in PCM frames
   and the disc's sample rate (typically 44100),
   returns the :class:`DiscID`.

Performing Lookup
-----------------

.. function:: perform_lookup(disc_id, freedb_server, freedb_port)

   Given a :class:`DiscID` object,
   FreeDB hostname string and FreeDB server port (usually 80),
   iterates over a list of :class:`audiotools.MetaData` objects
   per successful match, like:

   ``[track1, track2, ...], [track1, track2, ...], ...``

   May yield nothing if the server has no matches for the given disc ID.

   May raise :exc:`urllib2.HTTPError` if an error occurs
   querying the server or :exc:`ValueError` if the server returns
   invalid data.
