.TH "audiotools-config" 1 "May 19, 2010" "" "Audio Tools Configuration Manager"
.SH NAME
audiotools-config \- manage Python Audio Tools configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
audiotools-config [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
audiotools-config is the Python Audio Tools configuration manager.
When called without arguments, it displays the system's current
configuration.
By specifying various configuration arguments, it modifies the user's
\fC$(HOME)/.audiotools.cfg\fR file with new values.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit

.SH SYSTEM OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The default verbosity level for all tools.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.

.TP
\fB-c \fIcdrom\fB, --cdrom=\fIcdrom\fR
The default CD-ROM drive to use

.TP
\fB--cdrom-read-offset=\fIsamples\fR
The CD-ROM read offset to use

.TP
\fB--fs-encoding=\fIencoding\fR
The filesystem's text encoding, such as "UTF-8"

.TP
\fB--io-encoding=\fIencoding\fR
The system's I/O text encoding, such as "UTF-8"

.SH TRANSCODING OPTIONS

.TP
\fB-t \fITYPE\fB, --type=\fITYPE\fR
When used \fIwithout\fR the \fB-q\fR option, this sets the default audio
type to use when creating new audio files.
Otherwise, this is used in conjunction with \fB-q\fR to set
the default audio quality for the given type.
For a list of available audio formats, try: \fB-t help\fR

.TP

\fB-q \fIQUALITY\fB, --quality=\fIQUALITY\fR
The default quality level for a given audio type.
For a list of available quality levels, try: \fB-q help\fR

.TP
\fB-j \fIprocesses\fB, --joint=\fIprocesses\fR
The maximum number of tracks to convert at one time by default

.SH THUMBNAIL OPTIONS

.TP
\fB--thumbnail-format=\fItype\fR
The format to use for thumbnails, such as "jpeg" or "png"

.TP
\fB--thumbnail-size=\fIpixels\fR
The maximum size of each thumbnail, in pixels squared.
For example, specifying 100 results in thumbnails a maximum of
100\[mu]100 pixels large.

.SH FREEDB OPTIONS

.TP
\fB--freedb-server=\fIhostname\fR
The default FreeDB server to use

.TP
\fB--freedb-port=\fIport\fR
The default FreeDB port number to use

.SH MUSICBRAINZ OPTIONS

.TP
\fB--musicbrainz-server=\fIhostname\fR
The default MusicBrainz server to use

.TP
\fB--musicbrainz-port=\fIport\fR
The default MusicBrainz port number to use

.SH BINARIES OPTIONS

.TP
\fB--faac=\fIpath\fR
The path to the
.BR faac (1)
executable

.TP
\fB--faad=\fIpath\fR
The path to the
.BR faad (1)
executable

.TP
\fB--flac=\fIpath\fR
The path to the
.BR flac (1)
executable

.TP
\fB--oggdec=\fIpath\fR
The path to the
.BR oggdec (1)
executable

.TP
\fB--oggenc=\fIpath\fR
The path to the
.BR oggenc (1)
executable

.TP
\fB--speexdec=\fIpath\fR
The path to the
.BR speexdec (1)
executable

.TP
\fB--speexenc=\fIpath\fR
The path to the
.BR speexenc (1)
executable

.TP
\fB--twolame=\fIpath\fR
The path to the
.BR twolame (1)
executable

.TP
\fB--wavpack=\fIpath\fR
The path to the
.BR wavpack (1)
executable

.TP
\fB--wvunpack=\fIpath\fR
The path to the
.BR wvunpack (1)
executable

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
