.TH "cd2track" 1 "June 15, 2007" "" "Compact Disc Extractor"
.SH NAME
cd2track \- extract audio files
.SH SYNOPSIS
cd2track [OPTIONS] [track 1] [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
cd2track extracts audio files from a compact disc and
encodes them to tracks.
If track numbers are given, extracts only those tracks.
Otherwise, extracts the entire disc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-t \fItype\fB, --type=\fItype\fR
The audio format to extract the given tracks to.
For a list of available audio formats, try:
.B \-t
.B help
.TP
\fB-q \fIquality\fB, --quality=\fIquality\fR
The desired quality of the extracted tracks.
For a list of available quality modes for a given format, try:
.B \-q
.B help
.TP
\fB-x \fIfilename\fB, --xmcd=\fIfilename\fR
The XMCD file to use for metadata for the extracted tracks.
If no XMCD file is given, metadata will be taken from the source
tracks, if present.
XMCD files can be obtained from the
.BR track2xmcd (1)
,
.BR cd2xmcd (1)
and
.BR editxmcd (1)
programs.
.TP
\fB-d \fIdirectory\fB, --dir=\fIdirectory\fR
The target directory for the converted tracks.
If none is given, the current working directory is used
(see
.BR getcwd (3)
).
If the target directory does not exist, it will be created automatically.
.TP
\fB-c \fIcdrom\fB, --cdrom=\fIcdrom\fR
The cdrom device to extract tracks from
.TP
\fB-s \fIspeed\fB, --speed=\fIspeed\fR
The speed in which to read CD data at
.TP
\fB--no-replay-gain\fR
Do not add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks

.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Extract all of the tracks from \fI/dev/cdrom\fR as FLAC files
at the default quality using metadata from \fIalbum.xmcd\fR
.IP
.B cd2track \-t
.I flac \fB-x \fIalbum.xmcd\fB -c \fI/dev/cdrom

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cd2xmcd (1), 
.BR coverdump (1), 
.BR coverview (1), 
.BR editxmcd (1), 
.BR record2track (1), 
.BR track2cd (1), 
.BR track2track (1), 
.BR track2xmcd (1), 
.BR trackcat (1), 
.BR trackcmp (1), 
.BR trackinfo (1), 
.BR tracklength (1), 
.BR trackplay (1), 
.BR trackrename (1), 
.BR tracksplit (1), 
.BR tracktag (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Brian Langenberger
.f
