.TH "cdplay" 1 "February 2, 2011" "" "Play Compact Discs"
.SH NAME
cdplay \- plays compact discs to speakers
.SH SYNOPSIS
cdplay [track 1] [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
trackinfo takes a CD-ROM device and plays its tracks to an
available audio output device such as PulseAudio or the Open Sound System.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.
.TP
\fB-I, --interactive\fR
Run in interactive mode.
This provides a text-based GUI and allows one to operate
playback via keyboard and, on some terminals, mouse control.
.TP
\fB-o \fIOUTPUT\fB, --output=\fIOUTPUT\fR
The output system to use.
.TP
\fB-x \fIfilename\fB, --xmcd=\fIfilename\fR
FreeDB XMCD or MusicBrainz XML metadata file for displaying
disc information in interactive mode.
.TP
\fB-c \fIcdrom\fB, --cdrom=\fIcdrom\fR
The cdrom device to read CD metadata from
.TP
\fB--shuffle\fR
Shuffle tracks randomly before playback.

.SH SERVER OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--musicbrainz-server=\fIserver\fR
The MusicBrainz server name to query for metadata
.TP
\fB--musicbrainz-port=\fIport\fR
The MusicBrainz port number to query for metadata
.TP
\fB--freedb-server=\fIserver\fR
The FreeDB server name to query for metadata
.TP
\fB--freedb-port=\fIport\fR
The FreeDB port number to query for metadata
.TP
\fB--no-musicbrainz\fR
Do not query MusicBrainz
.TP
\fB--no-freedb\fR
Do not query FreeDB

.SH PLAYBACK CONTROLS
.TS
tab(:);
r c l.
\fBN\fR / \fBn\fR:-:next track
\fBP\fR / \fBp\fR:-:previous track
\fBSpace\fR:-:pause (non-interactive mode only)
\fBEsc\fR / \fBQ\fR / \fBq\fR:-:quit
.TE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AUDIODEV
If
.B AUDIODEV
is set,
.BR cdplay (1)
uses it as the device to play the given audio tracks when
using OSS for output.
Otherwise, the default \fI/dev/dsp\fR is used.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvda2track (1),
.BR dvda2xmcd (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
