.TH "dvda2xmcd" 1 "February 2, 2011" "" "DVD-Audio Metadata Retriever"
.SH NAME
dvda2xmcd \- retrieves metadata from a DVD-Audio disc
.SH SYNOPSIS
dvda2xmcd [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
dvda2xmcd takes a DVD-Audio's AUDIO_TS directory
and retrieves an XML or XMCD file
containing its metadata such as track name, album name and artist.
By default, the MusicBrainz service is queried first.
If no matches are found, the FreeDB service is queried next.
If no data is found on either, an empty MusicBrainz XML file is
written which can be edited by the user.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.
.TP
\fB-x \fIfilename\fB, --xmcd=\fIfilename\fR
The file in which MusicBrainz XML or FreeDB XMCD data will be placed.
.BR dvda2xmcd (1)
will refuse to overwrite an existing file if present.
If no filename is given, data will be written to
standard output.
.TP
\fB-A \fIDIRECTORY\fB, --audio-ts=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
The DVD-Audio's AUDIO_TS directory
.TP
\fB--title=\fITITLE\fB
The title number to retrieve metadata for, starting from 1.
The number of titles can be determined from the
.BR dvdainfo (1)
program.
.SH SERVER OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--musicbrainz-server=\fIserver\fR
The MusicBrainz server name to query for XML data
.TP
\fB--musicbrainz-port=\fIport\fR
The MusicBrainz port number to query for XML data
.TP
\fB--freedb-server=\fIserver\fR
The FreeDB server name to query for XMCD data
.TP
\fB--freedb-port=\fIport\fR
The FreeDB port number to query for XMCD data
.TP
\fB--no-musicbrainz\fR
Do not query MusicBrainz
.TP
\fB--no-freedb\fR
Do not query FreeDB
.TP
\fB-D, --default\fR
If multiple matching discs are found, select the first choice automatically

.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Obtain an XMCD file called \fIalbum.xmcd\fR from the contents
of \fI/media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS\fR.
.IP
.B dvda2xmcd \-x
.I album.xmcd \fB-c\fI /media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvda2track (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
