.TH "dvda2track" 1 "June 15, 2007" "" "DVD-Audio Extractor"
.SH NAME
dvda2track \- extract audio files
.SH SYNOPSIS
dvda2track [OPTIONS] [track 1] [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
dvda2track extracts audio files from a DVD-Audio disc and
encodes them to tracks.
If track numbers are given, extracts only those tracks.
Otherwise, extracts the entire disc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.
.TP
.TP
\fB-c \fIcdrom\fB, --cdrom=\fIcdrom\fR
The cdrom device of the mounted AUDIO_TS directory,
if reading from a physical disc.
If unsure, one can typically find this information via
.BR mount (8)
.TP
\fB-A \fIDIRECTORY\fB, --audio-ts=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
The DVD-Audio's AUDIO_TS directory
.TP
\fB--title=\fITITLE\fB
The title number to retrieve metadata for, starting from 1.
The number of titles can be determined from the
.BR dvdainfo (1)
utility.
.SH CONVERSION OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-t \fItype\fB, --type=\fItype\fR
The audio format to extract the given tracks to.
For a list of available audio formats, try:
.B \-t
.B help

The default audio type to use may be set with the
.BR audiotools-config (1)
utility.
.TP
\fB-q \fIquality\fB, --quality=\fIquality\fR
The desired quality of the extracted tracks.
For a list of available quality modes for a given format, try:
.B \-q
.B help

The default audio quality to use for a given format may be set with the
.BR audiotools-config (1)
utility.
.TP
\fB-d \fIdirectory\fB, --dir=\fIdirectory\fR
The target directory for the converted tracks.
If none is given, the current working directory is used
(see
.BR getcwd (3)
).
If the target directory does not exist, it will be created automatically.
.TP
\fB--format=\fIformat string\fR
The format string to use for new filenames.
Template fields are replaced with metadata values when new tracks are created.
All other text is left as-is.
If this option is omitted, a default format string is used.
.SH METADATA OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-x \fIfilename\fB, --xmcd=\fIfilename\fR
The XMCD file to use for metadata for the extracted tracks.
XMCD files can be obtained from the
.BR track2xmcd (1)
,
.BR cd2xmcd (1)
and
.BR editxmcd (1)
programs.
.TP
\fB--album-number=\fInumber\fR
The album number of this CD, if it is one of a series of albums.
.TP
\fB--replay-gain\fR
Add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.TP
\fB--no-replay-gain\fR
Do not add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.PP
Depending on the audio format used,
ReplayGain is added automatically by default
when it is implemented by inserting a metadata tag.
When ReplayGain is implemented by modifying audio data,
it is not added automatically and must be explicitly enabled.

.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Extract all of the tracks from \fI/dev/cdrom\fR,
which is mounted at \fI/media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS\fR,
as FLAC files at the default quality using metadata from \fIalbum.xmcd\fR
.IP
.B dvda2track \-t
.I flac \fB-x \fIalbum.xmcd\fB -c \fI/dev/cdrom \fB -A \fI/media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS\fR

.SH FORMAT STRING FIELDS
.TS
tab(:);
| c   s |
| c | c |
| r | l |.
_
Template Fields
Key:Value
=
\fC%(track_number)2.2d\fR:the track's number on the CD
\fC%(track_total)d\fR:the total number of tracks on the CD
\fC%(album_number)d\fR:the CD's album number
\fC%(album_total)d\fR:the total number of CDs in the set
\fC%(album_track_number)s\fR:combination of album and track number
\fC%(track_name)s\fR:the track's name
\fC%(album_name)s\fR:the album's name
\fC%(artist_name)s\fR:the track's artist name
\fC%(performer_name)s\fR:the track's performer name
\fC%(composer_name)s\fR:the track's composer name
\fC%(conductor_name)s\fR:the track's conductor name
\fC%(media)s\fR:the track's source media
\fC%(ISRC)s\fR:the track's ISRC
\fC%(catalog)s\fR:the track's catalog number
\fC%(copyright)s\fR:the track's copyright information
\fC%(publisher)s\fR:the track's publisher
\fC%(year)s\fR:the track's publication year
\fC%(date)s\fR:the track's original recording date
\fC%(suffix)s\fR:the track's suffix
_
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvda2xmcd (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
