.TH "record2track" 1 "Jan 16, 2008" "" "Audio Recorder"
.SH NAME
record2track \- record audio to track
.SH SYNOPSIS
record2track [OPTIONS] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
record2track records audio from an external source and saves it to a track.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-t \fItype\fB, --type=\fItype\fR
The audio format to convert the recorded audio to.
For a list of available audio formats, try:
.B \-t
.B help
.TP
\fB-q \fIquality\fB, --quality=\fIquality\fR
The desired quality of the recorded audio.
For a list of available quality modes for a given format, try:
.B \-q
.B help
.TP
\fB-o \fIfilename\fB, --output=\fIfilename\fR
The output filename for the recorded track.
.TP
\fB--sample-rate=\fIrate\fR
The sample rate to record audio at.
Defaults to 44100Hz.
.TP
\fB--bits-per-sample=\fIbps\fR
The bits-per-sample to record audio at.
Defaults to 16.
.TP
\fB--channels=\fIchannels\fR
The number of channels to record audio at.
Defaults to 2.
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
