.TH "track2track" 1 "June 15, 2007" "" "Audio File Converter"
.SH NAME
track2track \- convert audio tracks
.SH SYNOPSIS
track2track [OPTIONS] <track 1> [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
track2track converts audio tracks from one format to another.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.
.SH CONVERSION OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-t \fItype\fB, --type=\fItype\fR
The audio format to convert the given tracks to.
For a list of available audio formats, try:
.B \-t
.B help

The default audio type to use may be set with the
.BR audiotools-config (1)
utility.
.TP
\fB-q \fIquality\fB, --quality=\fIquality\fR
The desired quality of the converted tracks.
For a list of available quality modes for a given format, try:
.B \-q
.B help

The default audio quality to use for a given format may be set with the
.BR audiotools-config (1)
utility.
.TP
\fB-d \fIdirectory\fB, --dir=\fIdirectory\fR
The target directory for the converted tracks.
If none is given, the current working directory is used
(see
.BR getcwd (3)
).
If the target directory does not exist, it will be created automatically.
This option is not compatible with \fB-o\fR
.TP
\fB--format=\fIformat string\fR
The format string to use for new filenames.
Template fields are replaced with metadata values when new tracks are created.
All other text is left as-is.
If this option is omitted, a default format string is used.
.TP
\fB-o \fIfilename\fB, --output=\fIfilename\fR
An explicit output filename for the converted track.
With this option, only a single input track is allowed.
It overrides the \fB-d\fR option and the default output filename.
.TP
\fB-j \fIprocesses\fB, --joint=\fIprocesses\fR
The maximum number of tracks to convert at one time.
If one has multiple CPUs or CPU cores, allowing
.BR track2track (1)
to use all of them simultaneously can greatly increase encoding speed.
.SH METADATA OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-x \fIfilename\fB, --xmcd=\fIfilename\fR
A MusicBrainz XML file or FreeDB XMCD file to use for metadata for
the converted tracks.
If no file is given, metadata will be taken from the source
tracks, if present.
XML and XMCD files can be obtained from the
.BR track2xmcd (1)
,
.BR cd2xmcd (1)
and
.BR editxmcd (1)
programs.
.TP
\fB-T\fR,\fB--thumbnail\fR
Convert embedded images to smaller thumbnails during conversion.
.TP
\fB--replay-gain\fR
Add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.TP
\fB--no-replay-gain\fR
Do not add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.PP
Depending on the audio format used,
ReplayGain is added automatically by default
when it is implemented by inserting a metadata tag.
When ReplayGain is implemented by modifying audio data,
it is not added automatically and must be explicitly enabled.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Convert all the WAVE files in the current working directory to MP3s
at the default quality using metadata from \fIalbum.xmcd\fR:
.IP
.B track2track \-t
.I mp3 \fB-x \fIalbum.xmcd\fR *.wav

.LP
Convert all of the FLAC files in \fIsourcedir\fR to
Ogg Vorbis files and place them in \fItargetdir\fR:
.IP
.B track2track \-t
.I ogg \fB-d\fR
.I targetdir sourcedir/*.flac

.LP
Convert all of the WAVE files in \fIsourcedir\fR to
FLAC files, 2 at a time and at the highest possible compression
(quality 8):
.IP
.B track2track \-t
.I flac \fB-j\fI 2 \fB-q\fI 8
.I sourcedir/*.wav

.SH FORMAT STRING FIELDS
.TS
tab(:);
| c   s |
| c | c |
| r | l |.
_
Template Fields
Key:Value
=
\fC%(track_number)2.2d\fR:the track's number on the CD
\fC%(track_total)d\fR:the total number of tracks on the CD
\fC%(album_number)d\fR:the CD's album number
\fC%(album_total)d\fR:the total number of CDs in the set
\fC%(album_track_number)s\fR:combination of album and track number
\fC%(track_name)s\fR:the track's name
\fC%(album_name)s\fR:the album's name
\fC%(artist_name)s\fR:the track's artist name
\fC%(performer_name)s\fR:the track's performer name
\fC%(composer_name)s\fR:the track's composer name
\fC%(conductor_name)s\fR:the track's conductor name
\fC%(media)s\fR:the track's source media
\fC%(ISRC)s\fR:the track's ISRC
\fC%(catalog)s\fR:the track's catalog number
\fC%(copyright)s\fR:the track's copyright information
\fC%(publisher)s\fR:the track's publisher
\fC%(year)s\fR:the track's publication year
\fC%(date)s\fR:the track's original recording date
\fC%(suffix)s\fR:the track's suffix
\fC%(basename)s\fR:the track's original name, without suffix
_
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
