.TH "trackcmp" 1 "June 15, 2007" "" "Compare Audio Tracks"
.SH NAME
trackcmp \- compares one or more audio tracks for equivalence
.SH SYNOPSIS
trackcmp [OPTIONS] <track 1> <track 2>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
trackcmp takes two audio tracks and compares their PCM data.
If they are exactly the same, it prints no output and returns 0.
If not, a message is displayed and 1 is returned.
.PP
trackcmp may also take two directories as arguments.
In that case, any audio files in both directories are compared
as per a single file.
Track numbers are used to determine which file should be compared
to which.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-j \fIprocesses\fB, --joint=\fIprocesses\fR
The maximum number of tracks to compare at one time
during directory-by-directory comparison.
If one has multiple CPUs or CPU cores, allowing
.BR trackcmp (1)
to use all of them simultaneously can greatly increase encoding speed.
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.
.TP
\fB-R, --no-summary\fR
Do not display summary information when directory-by-directory comparison
is complete.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
