.TH "tracksplit" 1 "April 17, 2009" "" "Audio File Splitter"
.SH NAME
tracksplit \- split audio track
.SH SYNOPSIS
tracksplit [OPTIONS] <track>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
tracksplit splits an audio track into several smaller tracks.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB--cue=\fIfilename\fR
A cuesheet or
.BR cdrdao (1)
TOC file to use for splitting.
This file contains a series of track length indices which indicate
the length of each sub-track.
FLAC or WavPack files with embedded cuesheets may omit this argument.
.TP
\fB-t \fItype\fB, --type=\fItype\fR
The audio format to convert the split tracks to.
For a list of available audio formats, try:
.B \-t
.B help
.TP
\fB-q \fIquality\fB, --quality=\fIquality\fR
The desired quality of the split tracks.
For a list of available quality modes for a given format, try:
.B \-q
.B help
.TP
\fB-x \fIfilename\fB, --xmcd=\fIfilename\fR
The XMCD file to use for metadata for the split tracks.
XMCD files can be obtained from the
.BR track2xmcd (1)
,
.BR cd2xmcd (1)
and
.BR editxmcd (1)
programs.
.TP
\fB-d \fIdirectory\fB, --dir=\fIdirectory\fR
The target directory for the split tracks.
If none is given, the current working directory is used
(see
.BR getcwd (3)
).
If the target directory does not exist, it will be created automatically.
.TP
\fB--format=\fIformat string\fR
The format string to use for new filenames.
Template fields are replaced with metadata values when new tracks are created.
All other text is left as-is.
If this option is omitted, a default format string is used.
.TP
\fB-j \fIprocesses\fB, --joint=\fIprocesses\fR
The maximum number of tracks to extract at one time.
If one has multiple CPUs or CPU cores, allowing
.BR tracksplit (1)
to use all of them simultaneously can greatly increase splitting speed.
.TP
\fB--replay-gain\fR
Add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.TP
\fB--no-replay-gain\fR
Do not add ReplayGain metadata to newly split tracks
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Split \fICDImage.wav\fR into several WAVE files using the cuesheet
\fICDImage.cue\fR:
.IP
.B tracksplit \-\-cue=\fICDImage.cue\fR
.I CDImage.wav
.LP
Split \fIalbum.flac\fR into several FLAC files using
\fIalbum.toc\fR and metadata from \fIalbum.xmcd\fR:
.IP
.B tracksplit \-\-cue=\fIalbum.toc\fR
\-x
.I album.xmcd album.flac
.LP
Obtain \fICDImage.cue\fR using the
.BR cdrdao (1)
utilities:
.IP
.B cdrdao read-toc \-\-device \fI/dev/cdrom\fR \fICDImage.toc\fR
.br
.B toc2cue \fICDImage.toc\fR \fICDImage.cue\fR

.SH FORMAT STRING FIELDS
.TS
tab(:);
| c   s |
| c | c |
| l | l |.
_
Template Fields
Key:Value
=
\fC%(track_number)2.2d\fR:the track's number on the CD
\fC%(track_total)d\fR:the total number of tracks on the CD
\fC%(album_number)d\fR:the CD's album number
\fC%(album_total)d\fR:the total number of CDs in the set
\fC%(album_track_number)s\fR:combination of album and track number
\fC%(track_name)s\fR:the track's name
\fC%(album_name)s\fR:the album's name
\fC%(artist_name)s\fR:the track's artist name
\fC%(performer_name)s\fR:the track's performer name
\fC%(composer_name)s\fR:the track's composer name
\fC%(conductor_name)s\fR:the track's conductor name
\fC%(media)s\fR:the track's source media
\fC%(ISRC)s\fR:the track's ISRC
\fC%(catalog)s\fR:the track's catalog number
\fC%(copyright)s\fR:the track's copyright information
\fC%(publisher)s\fR:the track's publisher
\fC%(year)s\fR:the track's publication year
\fC%(date)s\fR:the track's original recording date
\fC%(suffix)s\fR:the track's suffix
_
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracktag (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
