.TH "trackplay" 1 "June 15, 2007" "" "Play Audio Tracks"
.SH NAME
trackplay \- plays audio tracks to speakers
.SH SYNOPSIS
trackplay <track 1> [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
trackinfo takes a list of audio tracks and plays them to an
available audio output device such as PulseAudio or the Open Sound System.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.
.TP
\fB-I, --interactive\fR
Run in interactive mode.
This provides a test-based GUI and allows one to operate
playback via keyboard and, on some terminals, mouse control.
.TP
\fB-T, --track-replaygain\fR
Apply track ReplayGain during playback, if present
.TP
\fB-A, --album-replaygain\fR
Apply album ReplayGain during playback, if present
.TP
\fB-o \fIOUTPUT\fB, --output=\fIOUTPUT\fR
The output system to use.
.TP
\fB--shuffle\fR
Shuffle tracks randomly before playback.

.SH PLAYBACK CONTROLS
.TS
tab(:);
r c l.
\fBN\fR / \fBn\fR:-:next track
\fBP\fR / \fBp\fR:-:previous track
\fBSpace\fR:-:pause (non-interactive mode only)
\fBEsc\fR / \fBQ\fR / \fBq\fR:-:quit
.TE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AUDIODEV
If
.B AUDIODEV
is set,
.BR trackplay (1)
uses it as the device to play the given audio tracks when
using OSS for output.
Otherwise, the default \fI/dev/dsp\fR is used.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
