.TH "tracktag" 1 "October 17, 2008" "" "Audio File Tagger"
.SH NAME
tracktag \- updates audio file metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
tracktag [OPTIONS] <track 1> [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
tracktag takes new metadata values and a list of audio files
and updates those files with the new values.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-r, --replace\fR
Completely replace all metadata with new values.
By default,
.BR tracktag (1)
will only update metadata values which have been specified
and will leave all others as-is.
This option will erase
.I all
existing metadata and replace it with any specified values.
.TP
\fB--name=\fITRACK NAME\fR
The file's track name
.TP
\fB--artist=\fIARTIST NAME\fR
The file's artist name
.TP
\fB--performer=\fIPERFORMER NAME\fR
The file's performer name
.TP
\fB--composer=\fICOMPOSER NAME\fR
The file's composer name
.TP
\fB--conductor=\fICONDUCTOR NAME\fR
The file's conductor name
.TP
\fB--album=\fIALBUM NAME\fR
The file's album name
.TP
\fB--catalog=\fICATALOG NUMBER\fR
The file's catalog number
.TP
\fB--number=\fITRACK NUMBER\fR
The file's track number
.TP
\fB--album-number=\fIALBUM NUMBER\fR
The file's album number, if its album is part of a set of albums
.TP
\fB--ISRC=\fICODE\fR
The file's ISRC
.TP
\fB--publisher=\fIPUBLISHER NAME\fR
The file's publisher
.TP
\fB--media-type=\fITYPE\fR
The file's media type, such as \fICD\fR
.TP
\fB--year=\fIYEAR\fR
The file's release year
.TP
\fB--date=\fIDATE\fR
The file's recording date
.TP
\fB--copyright=\fICOPYRIGHT\fR
The file's copyright information
.TP
\fB-x \fIfilename\fB, --xmcd=\fIfilename\fR
An XMCD file to use for metadata for the tracks to be retagged.
XMCD files can be obtained from the
.BR track2xmcd (1)
,
.BR cd2xmcd (1)
and
.BR editxmcd (1)
programs.
.TP
\fB--remove-images\fR
Remove existing images prior to adding new ones.
.TP
\fB--front-cover=\fIfilename\fR
Adds the given image file to the track as a front cover.
.TP
\fB--back-cover=\fIfilename\fR
Adds the given image file to the track as a back cover.
.TP
\fB--leaflet=\fIfilename\fR
Adds the given image file to the track as a leaflet page.
.TP
\fB--media=\fIfilename\fR
Adds the given image file to the track as media.
.TP
\fB--other-image=\fIfilename\fR
Adds the given image file to the track.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Update \fItrack.flac\fR to be track number 5 and have a
track name of \fITest Track\fR.
.IP
.B tracktag
\fB"\-\-name=\fITest Track\fB"\fR
\fB\-\-number=\fI5\fR
.I track.flac
.LP
Add several JPEG images to \fItrack.flac\fR
.IP
.B tracktag
\fB\-\-front\-cover=\fIfront.jpg\fR
\fB\-\-back\-cover=\fIback.jpg\fR
\fB\-\-leaflet=\fIpage1.jpg\fR
\fB\-\-leaflet=\fIpage2.jpg\fR
\fB\-\-leaflet=\fIpage3.jpg\fR
.I track.flac

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Brian Langenberger
.f

