.TH "tracklint" 1 "October 22, 2008" "" "Track Checker"
.SH NAME
tracklint \- checks and fixes minor track metadata errors automatically
.SH SYNOPSIS
tracklint [--fix] [--undo] [--db=filename] <track 1> [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
tracklint takes a list of audio tracks,
examines their metadata for common problems and suggests fixes for them.
If directories are given, tracklint searches them recursively
and suggests fixes for any audio tracks found.
tracklint can also perform any suggested metadata fixes if
requested, and undo any performed fixes if an undo database was
used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.
.TP
\fB--fix\fR
Perform tracklint's suggested fixes on the given audio tracks
.TP
\fB--undo\fR
Undo tracklint's fixes on the given audio tracks using information
from the undo database.
Tracks restored in this way will be byte-for-byte identical to
their original condition prior to running tracklint.
However, it is important that the tracks not be modified further
prior to using this option or else tracklint's undo information will
no longer be applicable.
.TP
\fB--db=\fIdatabase file\fR
The undo database file.
When used with the \fB--fix\fR option, undo information will be stored
in the given file.
When used with the \fB--undo\fR option, files will be restored to
their original state using information from the given file.
.SH FIXES
tracklint performs the following fixes on each track:
.PP
\[bu] Leading zeroes are stripped from track number and album number fields.
For example, a track number value of \[lq]\fC01\fR\[rq]
is changed to \[lq]\fC1\fR\[rq].
.PP
\[bu] If the track number field is between 100 and 999, the leading digit
becomes the album number and trailing two digits becomes the track number.
For example, a track number value of \[lq]\fC213\fR\[rq]
results in an album number of \[lq]\fC2\fR\[rq] and a track number of
\[lq]\fC13\fR\[rq].
.PP
\[bu] If the performer name is the same as the artist name,
the redundant performer name field is removed.
.PP
\[bu] Leading or trailing whitespace is removed from fields.
For example, a track name value of \[lq]\fCSome Title \fR\[rq] becomes
\[lq]\fCSome Title\fR\[rq].
.PP
\[bu] Empty fields are removed.
.PP
\[bu] Embedded images with invalid metadata fields such as width or height
are fixed.
.PP
\[bu] ID3v2 and ID3v1 tags are stripped from FLAC files.
.PP
\[bu] FLAC files with misordered STREAMINFO blocks are reordered.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR cdplay (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvda2track (1),
.BR dvda2xmcd (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
