.TH "trackrename" 1 "November 20, 2008" "" "Audio File Renamer"
.SH NAME
trackrename \- renames files based on metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
trackrename [OPTIONS] <track 1> [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
trackrename takes a list of audio files and
renames them based on external or internal metadata.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show the program's version and exit
.TP
\fB-x \fIfilename\fB, --xmcd=\fIfilename\fR
A MusicBrainz XML file or FreeDB XMCD file to retrieve metadata from
during renaming.
If omitted, the tracks will be renamed based on their own
metadata contents.
.TP
\fB--format=\fIformat string\fR
The format string to use for new filenames.
Template fields are replaced with metadata values during renaming.
All other text is left as-is.
If this option is omitted, a default format string is used.
.TS
tab(:);
| c   s |
| c | c |
| r | l |.
_
Template Fields
Key:Value
=
\fC%(track_number)2.2d\fR:the track's number on the CD
\fC%(track_total)d\fR:the total number of tracks on the CD
\fC%(album_number)d\fR:the CD's album number
\fC%(album_total)d\fR:the total number of CDs in the set
\fC%(album_track_number)s\fR:combination of album and track number
\fC%(track_name)s\fR:the track's name
\fC%(album_name)s\fR:the album's name
\fC%(artist_name)s\fR:the track's artist name
\fC%(performer_name)s\fR:the track's performer name
\fC%(composer_name)s\fR:the track's composer name
\fC%(conductor_name)s\fR:the track's conductor name
\fC%(media)s\fR:the track's source media
\fC%(ISRC)s\fR:the track's ISRC
\fC%(catalog)s\fR:the track's catalog number
\fC%(copyright)s\fR:the track's copyright information
\fC%(publisher)s\fR:the track's publisher
\fC%(year)s\fR:the track's publication year
\fC%(date)s\fR:the track's original recording date
\fC%(suffix)s\fR:the track's suffix
_
.TE
.TP
\fB-V \fIVERBOSITY\fB, --verbose=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display.
Choose between `normal', `quiet' and `debug'.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Rename all of the FLAC files in the current directory based on
their Vorbis Comment metadata:
.IP
.B track2rename
.I *.flac

.LP
Rename all of the MP3s in \fItargetdir\fR based on
the contents of \fIalbum.xmcd\fR.

.IP
.B trackrename \-x
.I album.xmcd targetdir/*.mp3

.LP
Rename \fIfile.flac\fR with a custom template.

.IP
.B trackrename
"\-\-format=%(track_number)2.2d - %(album_name)s - %(track_name)s.%(suffix)s"
.I file.flac

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR record2track (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger

